# Syene

Syene is a geo location service that can map an IP address to a location.

## Installation

1. `gem install bundler`
- Install `libgeoip` (`brew install geoip`, or see http://www.maxmind.com/app/c)
- `bundle install`
- `rake spec`
- `rake update:geoip`
- Make sure MongoDB is running
- `rake update`

## Usage

There are three interfaces to the service: a command line interface, and AMQP worker and a REST server.

Make sure that MongoDB is running before using any of the interfaces.

### CLI

To look up an IP from the command line use the `lookup` command. It will look up all IP numbers passed as arguments, or if no arguments are given (or the first argument is -) it will read from STDIN (each IP should be on a separate line).

    lookup 8.8.8.8 7.7.7.7 6.6.6.6
    echo 8.8.8.8 | lookup
    cat lots_of_ips | lookup -

### AMQP worker

The `worker` command starts a worker node that listens for messages on the `burt.syene` exchange. The routing key should be an empty string, and each message must set a header called "reply_key" to the routing key where it's listening for a reply. The reply will have a header called "query" that contains the original message. See `bin/client` for an example of how to communicate with the worker.

You can use the `client` command similarly to the CLI interface:

    client 8.8.8.8 7.7.7.7 6.6.6.6
    echo 8.8.8.8 | client
    cat lots_of_ips | client -

Make sure that RabbitMQ, or a compatible AMQP broker, is running before running `worker`. There is currently no way to specify the host and port of the broker, localhost and the default port is assumed.

### REST server

The `server` command starts up a REST server that can be used similarly to the CLI and AMQP interfaces. `server` uses `rackup` to start the server, so by default it will run in WEBrick on port 9292. You can pass any `rackup` options to the `server` command, so if you want to run it with Thin on port 1337 run

    server --server thin --port 1337
    
To look up an IP address you can access `/cities` and pass the IP address as a parameter:

    curl 'http://localhost:9292/cities?ip=8.8.8.8'
    
The result is always JSON.

The server logs can be found in `tmp/logs/production.log`.

## Syene?

Syene was the city in Greek Egypt where Eratosthenes measured the circumference of the Earth.